Update 5.1 to follow BASHER and Zero Trust guidelines (#112)
Azure-Samples/ms-identity-javascript-react-tutorial: 5-AccessControl/1-call-api-roles/README.md

* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
* [About the code](#about-the-code)
* [Next Steps](#next-steps)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Learn More](#learn-more)

## Overview

This sample demonstrates a cross-platform application suite involving an React single-page application (*TodoListSPA*) calling an Node.js & Express web API (*TodoListAPI*) secured with the Microsoft identity platform. In doing so, it implements **Role-based Access Control** (RBAC) by using Azure AD **App Roles**.

Access control in Azure AD can be done with **Security Groups** as well, as we will cover in the [next tutorial](../2-call-api-groups/README.md). **Security Groups** and **App Roles** in Azure AD are by no means mutually exclusive - they can be used in tandem to provide even finer grained access control.

> :information_source: See the community call: [Implement authorization in your applications with the Microsoft identity platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRoc-na27l0)

> :information_source: See the community call: [Deep dive on using MSAL.js to integrate React Single-page applications with Azure Active Directory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7oPSL5wWeS0)

## Scenario

> In the sample, a **dashboard** component allows signed-in users to see the tasks assigned to users and is only accessible by users under an **app role** named **TaskAdmin**.

Reviewer: >under an [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=131&length=8)

assigned to

> In the sample, a **dashboard** component allows signed-in users to see the tasks assigned to users and is only accessible by users under an **app role** named **TaskAdmin**.

Reviewer: add this " A user needs to be assigned an *app role** **TaskUser** to be able to create tasks for themselves

* The **TodoListSPA** uses [MSAL React](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/dev/lib/msal-react) to authenticate a user with the Microsoft identity platform.

> * The app then obtains an [access token](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/access-tokens) from Azure AD on behalf of the authenticated user for the **TodoListAPI**.

Reviewer: >the **TodoListAPI**. [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=168&length=20)

add "The API maintains the To Do list and ensures access to the right users based on permissions"

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: >Prerequisites [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=3&length=13)

Isn't  a node and react fw of some version required as well?

* A modern web browser. This sample uses **ES6** conventions and will not run on **Internet Explorer**.
* An **Azure AD** tenant. For more information, see: [How to get an Azure AD tenant](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/test-setup-environment#get-a-test-tenant)
* A user account in your **Azure AD** tenant. This sample will not work with a **personal Microsoft account**. If you're signed in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) with a personal Microsoft account and have not created a user account in your directory before, you will need to create one before proceeding.

## Setup the sample

### Step 1: Clone or download this repository

From your shell or command line:

```console
    git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-javascript-react-tutorial.git
```

or download and extract the repository *.zip* file.

> :warning: To avoid path length limitations on Windows, we recommend cloning into a directory near the root of your drive.

### Step 2. Install Express web API dependencies

```console

>     cd 3-Authorization-II\1-call-api\API

Reviewer: >cd 3-Authorization-II\1-call-api\API [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=4&length=36)

this is wrong !

    npm install
```

### Step 3. Install React SPA dependencies

```console

>     cd 3-Authorization-II\1-call-api\SPA

Reviewer: >cd 3-Authorization-II\1-call-api\SPA [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=4&length=36)

this is wrong !

       ```

    1. Run the script to create your Azure AD application and configure the code of the sample application accordingly.
    1. For interactive process -in PowerShell, run:

       ```PowerShell
       cd .\AppCreationScripts\
       .\Configure.ps1 -TenantId "[Optional] - your tenant id" -AzureEnvironmentName "[Optional] - Azure environment, defaults to 'Global'"
       ```

    > Other ways of running the scripts are described in [App Creation Scripts guide](./AppCreationScripts/AppCreationScripts.md). The scripts also provide a guide to automated application registration, configuration and removal which can help in your CI/CD scenarios.

  </details>

#### Choose the Azure AD tenant where you want to create your applications

As a first step you'll need to:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. If your account is present in more than one Azure AD tenant, select your profile at the top right corner in the menu on top of the page, and then **switch directory** to change your portal session to the desired Azure AD tenant.

#### Register the client app (msal-react-spa)

> 1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and select the **Azure Active Directory** service.

Reviewer 2: Can you run the codegen once more for the registration section here. It should be slightly different with the latest changes

    1. For **Admin consent description** type in the details `e.g. Allows the app msal-react-spa to read the signed-in users ToDo list items.`
    1. For **User consent display name** type in the details `e.g. Read ToDo list items as yourself`.
    1. For **User consent description** type in the details `e.g. Allow the app msal-react-spa to read ToDo list items on your behalf.`
    1. Keep **State** as **Enabled**.
    1. Select the **Add scope** button on the bottom to save this scope.
    > Repeat the steps above for another scope named **Todolist.ReadWrite**
1. Select the **Manifest** blade on the left.
    1. Set `accessTokenAcceptedVersion` property to **2**.
    1. Select on **Save**.

##### Add Scopes to msal-react-spa

1. Since this app signs-in users, we will now proceed to select **delegated permissions**, which is is required by apps signing-in users.
1. In the app's registration screen, select the **API permissions** blade in the left to open the page where we add access to the APIs that your application needs:
    1. Select the **Add a permission** button and then,
    1. Ensure that the **Microsoft APIs** tab is selected.

>     1. In the list of APIs, select the API `service`.

Reviewer: >service [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=44&length=7)

there is no "service" in this sample, so check what the app reg screen shows and update accordingly

    1. In the **Delegated permissions** section, select the **Todolist.Read**, **Todolist.ReadWrite** in the list. Use the search box if necessary.
    1. Select the **Add permissions** button at the bottom.

##### Publish Application Roles for users and groups

1. Still on the same app registration, select the **App roles** blade to the left.
1. Select **Create app role**:
    1. For **Display name**, enter a suitable name, for instance **TaskAdmin**.
    1. For **Allowed member types**, choose **User**.
    1. For **Value**, enter **TaskAdmin**.
    1. For **Description**, enter **Admins can read any user's todo list**.
    > Repeat the steps above for another role named **TaskUser**
    1. Select **Apply** to save your changes.

> To add users to this app role, follow the guidelines here: [Assign users and groups to roles](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-add-app-roles-in-azure-ad-apps#assign-users-and-groups-to-roles).

Reviewer: add this section under 

"> :bulb: **Important step**"

> :bulb: **Important security tip**
>
> When you set **User assignment required?** to **Yes**, Azure AD will check that only users assigned to your application in the **Users and groups** blade are able to sign-in to your app. You can assign users directly or by assigning security groups they belong to.
For more information, see: [How to: Add app roles in your application and receive them in the token](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-add-app-roles-in-azure-ad-apps)

> ##### Configure Optional Claims

Reviewer 2: I don't think optional claims section needed in this scenario

    1. Select the optional claim **acct**.
    1. Select **Add** to save your changes.

##### Configure the service app to use your app registration

Open the project in your IDE (like Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code) to configure the code.

> In the steps below, "ClientID" is the same as "Application ID" or "AppId".

1. Open the `API\authConfig.js` file.
1. Find the key `tenantID` and replace the existing value with your Azure AD tenant ID.
1. Find the key `clientID` and replace the existing value with the application ID (clientId) of `msal-react-spa` app copied from the Azure portal.

##### Configure the client app to use your app registration

Open the project in your IDE (like Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code) to configure the code.

> In the steps below, "ClientID" is the same as "Application ID" or "AppId".

1. Open the `SPA\src\authConfig.js` file.
1. Find the key `Enter_the_Application_Id_Here` and replace the existing value with the application ID (clientId) of **msal-react-spa** app copied from the Azure portal.
1. Find the key `Enter_the_Tenant_Info_Here` and replace the existing value with your Azure AD tenant ID copied from the Azure portal.

> 1. Find the key `Enter_the_Web_Api_Application_Id_Here` and replace the existing value with APP ID URI of the web API project that you've registered earlier, e.g. `api://<clientID>/Todolist.Read`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Find the key `Enter_the_Web_Api_Application_Id_Here` and replace the existing value with client ID of the web API project that you've registered earlier, e.g. `api://<client-id>/Todolist.Read`.
```

![error](./ReadmeFiles/ch1_error.png)

> :information_source: Did the sample not work for you as expected? Then please reach out to us using the [GitHub Issues](../../../../issues) page.

## We'd love your feedback!

Were we successful in addressing your learning objective? Consider taking a moment to [share your experience with us]([Enter_Survey_Form_Link](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbR73pcsbpbxNJuZCMKN0lURpUMlRHSkc5U1NLUkxFNEtVN0dEOTFNQkdTWiQlQCN0PWcu)).

## Troubleshooting

<details>
 <summary>Expand for troubleshooting info</summary>

> * Use [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/msal) to get support from the community.
Ask your questions on Stack Overflow first and browse existing issues to see if someone has asked your question before.
Make sure that your questions or comments are tagged with [`azure-active-directory` `react` `ms-identity` `adal` `msal`].

If you find a bug in the sample, raise the issue on [GitHub Issues](../../../../issues).
</details>

> ## About the code

Reviewer: You need to explicitly show how the api ensures that only the client app is able to call this api (filter based on client id)
